- Guille Meeting

- Next day: Wed 15-01-2020 in the afternoon

Everything is in guillep/opensmalltalk-vm gc-tests
When Pharo is running the memory is divided in Old and New space. 
The VM will move the new objects from new space to the old one (Tenuring).

Statistics shows that new objects die faster than older, many will be discarded fast.

We have a really small space (the new space) that is GC more often.
The big old space, is garbage collected less frequently. 

The profilling show the number of GC in the old and new space. Also, the size of the objects created and collected. 
Full GC = Incremental / Scavenge (on the new) + Scan in the old space. 

The compactor compacts the old space. 

To be able to test the compacting of the old space, the new space should be correctly created. 

The new space is divided in 3: Eden, past & future. 
The GC in the new space is a copy collector.
It is copying the objects from the eden and the past to the future. 
Only copying the objects.
It is swapping the future and past spaces. 

After scavenging the future has all the objects that survived. 
The eden will be empty and the past we don't care we will overwrite it.

The memory model has 2 API, a high level and a low level. 
The low level, just inform the errors, the high level runs the GC if needed. 

When the GC runs the past space is switched with the future every time. 
Reusing the same space for copying.

Nil is always needed, it will never be GC.

- Adding an object in the eden, if it is not referenced it should not be move to the past space. 

The GC checks the objects starting from the roots:

- A root retains the objects it points. 

- Three kind of roots (1) the objects pointed by the remembered set, (2) the objects in the stack, and (3) special objects.  

- The objects in the remembered set are the objects from the old space that points to objects in the new space.

- If an objects is the receiver or parameter it should not be collected. 

- Special objects: a set of variables that are required by the VM and those variables are used as roots of the GC. These are objects in well known positions (ex: nil, true, false, class table, etc).

When an object moves in the GC, the memory pointing to it should be updated. 
The VM assumes the image is already corrected and have some given format (ex: nil, false, true).
All the implementation takes advantage of that.

All the execution of a process stores the information in the stack.
The stack is the real representation of the contexts in the image. 
The frames are in a sequence, in the stack. 
Each frame knows the calling frame with a pointer. 

Since the stack can reference differnet objects, the references in the frames make the objects does not collected. 

Checking: testReceiverinStackShouldSurviveScanvenge
--------

To run the scavenger, the old memory should be correctly initialized. 

All objects have a header with its information, and a single instance variable slot (even if it is empty). 

When saving the image, we are only saving the old space. Every time the new objects are tenured to the old space, this have interesting consequences.

When the scavenge runs all the positions should be remapped to the new positions in the future space. 
The frames in the stack maybe have a context in the heap.
The frame have: the method, the receiver, the arguments, and some stuff in the stack (partial results). 

-----

Let's test transitive objects, objects that have a pointer to another object. If the first one is referenced, neither should be collected. 

Check: testReferencedObjectObjectShouldSurviveScavenge

We create an object with a single slot and then another object with none, we make it point one to the other.
The API #storePointer:ofObject:withValue: is zero based.

The tenuring of objects can follow the following strategies: 

 - Instances of a given class.
 - Tenure to shrink the remembered table, it is used when the remembered set is too big.
 - By age, using the addresses in the past.
 
Teorically (not tested yet) The strategy is overrriden if there is no space. 

The tenuring by class is used by the someInstance primitive. To tenure the instances before the executing the primitive. So, it is able to find the instances in the old space. 

Always the future space is empty / unused. 

Testing the order of objects in the copy
----------------------------------------

Roots: A, C

B -> D
C -> A
A -> B
A -> C
E


- Step 1: copy roots
future space: A, C

- Step 2: We go over first surviving object (A)
future space: A, C, B
(C was already copied, so we just update the reference)

- Step 3: We go over second surviving object (C)
future space: A, C, B
(C points to A, but A was already copied, so we just update the reference)

- Step 4: We go over next surviving object (B)
future space: A, C, B, D

- Step 5: We go over next surviving object (D)
Nothing to do, and nothing new in future space
