We have the new space, then the old space.
This chunk of memory is allocated at once. Including: eden, past, future, and the initial old space.
The initial space in the image file.

If there is need for more memory the VM will allocate more segments. 
Each segment is allocated in uncontinuous space.

Each segment has the start and the end of the position.
At the end of each segment there is a special object, this is fake object that has all the space between the end of the current segment and the beginning of the next one.
This is to make the memory a single continuous space. 

The segments are always allocated one after the other, the new segment has to be physically after in memory.

The memory is allocated in segments, so it can grow. Theoretically, if a segment is not used anymore it can be returned.


VMSpurOldSpaceStructureTest >> #testNewMemoryOldSpaceShouldHaveOneSegment is testing that there is only one segment just after starting. 
 Also we check if the size of the segment is correct one. 
 And also to test if the asked size is he one allocated.
 
VMSpurOldSpaceTest
	- This test when we allocate a piece of memory the free list is updated.
	- The old space has a free list of chunks.
	- The free lists are two things.
	- 63 lists for smaller free chunkgs (from 1 to 63 slots) and a tree for bigger chunks
	- It has references to the old memory where there is a chunk of free memory. 
	- Every time a object in the old space is created it has to check the free list, look a chunk in it, update the free list
	and allocate the piece of memory.
		

VMSpurOldSpaceTest

- #allocatedOldSpaceChunkOfBytes does not allocate if there is no enough space. It does not allocate new space. It just returns null. 
- The remember set is stored in the old space, after the freelist and class table. It's a list of objects in the oldspace with references to objects in the new space. It's used by the GC of the new space.

- It is mantained: 
  - When an object in the old space references an object in the new space, it is added to the remembered set. 
  - Check #storePointer:ofObject:withValue:
  - This is maintained with a WriteBarrier
  - The remembered set, allows the GC of the new space without traversing the old space to get all the roots of the new space.
  - It is a fixed array, it can grow.
  - If an object is moved to the old space, it should not remember it. Only when the it referenced
  - If an object in the old space refers an object in the new space, after a GC the new space object should be retained. 
  - When the objects are moved in the newspace, the referencing objects in the old space should be updated.
  - When an new object references an old object, none of them should be in the remembered set.
  - #testOverflowRememberedSetShouldMakeItGrow 

How the free list is initialized.
--------------------------------- 

 - The list of free chunks starts with a single element, eveything else in 0.
 - The elements have classIndex == 0, freeObjectClassIndexPun
 - When starts the freeLists is only one object with the whole size of the free space.
 - Each free chunk has at least 16 bytes.
 - If only has 16 bytes, it stores a pointer to the next free chunk
 - If it has more than 16 bytes, it stores also a pointer to the previous free chunk.
 - In this way the free list is kept.
 - The allocated space is taken from the start of the free chunk. 
 - When a chunk is free it is not merged with the next ones. This is done in the compaction.
 - When a chunk is free is next to the previous one, doesnt matter if not merged.
 - When we allocate a perfect fit, it reuses the chunk that fits perfect.
 
 - If the requested chunk is small, it will take the first big enough to fit it.
 - If the free chunk has less than 64 allocation units, this is put in a list in the free lists.
 - The position of a free list is the number of allocation units of the chunk.
 - The position 0 of freeLists is the free tree.
 - Chunks of 16 bytes are call liliputians. They live in the slot 2 of the free list, is the smallest chunk.
 - The tree is used for larger chunks.
 - Every time an allocation is performed, any given remaining free chunk cannot be smaller than a liliputian (16 bytes)
 
Important: The oop always point to the header.
 #startOfOop: returns the real start of the object (the oop or the overflow header) 