# 2020-01-30

- When it is looking for a place in the free list it tries a perfect match.
- Then if not, the smaller multiple of a power of 2. Ex: 32, 32 * 2, 32 * 4, 32 * 8
- The reminder is always at least 16 bytes (2 allocation units) a Liliputian
- If it is not a perfect power of 2 multiple, it will use the first big enough to fit the space.

- When the look up size is bigger and it should the tree, the strategy is the best fit.
- The position of the stack is independent of the position of the old and new space.

- The new space is always in an smaller address that old space. This is to ease the checking if the object is young.

## Tree allocation strategy tests (VMSpurTreeAllocationStrategyTest)

- When a node of the tree is used completly:
  - The smaller node replace the used one
  - It will reinsert the larger node from the root of the tree.
  
- When a node of the tree is used parcially:
  - The smaller node replace the used one
  - It will reinsert the larger node from the root of the tree.
  - A new node with the remaining space is created and added from the root. 
  
- The tree is organized like:
  - Smaller nodes in the left
  - Larger nodes in the right
  - Same size in a linked list in the node
  
- If there is an element in the linked list of the node, the elements in the linked lists have priority over the nodes. It is easier to look for the element in the list

- In the nodes it uses 0 as a marker of NULL.

- When the remembered set is overflow it is reallocated in a new one with the double of size. It copies all the entries into the new one. The remembered set is the last entry in the class table. It starts with 1024 entries in nil. 

- The freeList pointer points to the first slot of the object, not to the oop of the free list. The free list pointer is not a root of the new space. 

- We created a weak array class with three instance variables, a class has 3 instances variables for the VM (superclass, methodDictionary and format). The 2 first can be nil, the format is calculated with 4 as instSpec and 0 as slots. We add it to the class table ensuring it has a class hash.

